---
layout: article
title: How to configure CORS in Spring Boot
permalink: /articles/chat-gpt-automation
tags: chat-gpt, llm, ai, automation
lang: en
key: chat-gpt
---

# Chat GPT and other AI wonders on a stick

[//]: # (todo fix header) - idiom

Over the last few years, revolutionary AI tools like GPT, DALL-E, Midjourney,
and Copilot have caused a stir. Some people have renewed fears about the rise of
Skynet and the end of the human race. The threat of job loss for many
professions has emerged. AI can write articles, generate graphics, and replace
known actors with deepfakes. Chat GPT can generate code in a matter of seconds,
while it could take a programmer several days. Creative professions have had a
solid foundation for feeling secure in the job market until now. This is
undoubtedly a revolution we are witnessing. Interesting times have come…

I rarely use image generation models; I use Chat GPT much more often, and this
article is mainly about it.

Some predict the end of the world, but I see AI tool development as a chance to
gain entirely new, stronger work facilitation with "picky" code.

Currently, you can ask Chat GPT to correct the text, summarize it, translate it,
write a song, etc. The number of possibilities is vast. You can find some
exciting prompt examples on
this [website](https://github.com/f/awesome-chatgpt-prompts). A prompt is a
question for this tool.

Chat GPT is based on the [LLM algorithm](https://www.analyticsvidhya.com/blog/2023/03/an-introduction-to-large-language-models-llms/)
, which is used for natural language (human) processing. During training, the
creators upload vast amounts of data; the algorithm searches for associations
and links the messages together. Chat GPT is a generative model and always
provides an answer. Unfortunately, it also responds when it has no answer or
does not understand the prompt at all. Just like politicians during a difficult
press conference;)

The model's response does not have to be consistent with reality. The models
themselves only have information and associations between them; however, they
lack human intelligence. But it simulates it well, but only simulates it. A
person always needs to verify the result.

To not miss the train and take advantage of the opportunity in the market, I
decided to regularly devote time to learning prompt engineering - this is the
name of the new field of engineering. It involves writing prompt-queries to
models.

Halfway through this year, the phrase exploded in popularity on Google search:

The internet is not lacking in admiration for the possibilities of the chat, but
reality is more in shades of gray. There are several problems, such as no
fact-checking, the answer does not have to be as expected, generated code may
contain errors, etc. So it's always worth checking the prompt generated if you
intend to use it, for example, to generate automated emails to a customer.

## From my perspective

Where do I see the potential for the use of chat in my activities?

- Translation - it performs better than Google Translate.
- Summaries of texts, videos, podcasts. It saves me time.
- Text correction - language, grammatical, orthographic corrections.
- Text analysis.
- Name generator, descriptions, texts, e.g., product names, articles, letters.
- Web page design.
- Support for used tools, e.g., generating prompts for DALL-E to generate images
  for a blog or Excel formulas.
- Programming, e.g. frontend code, repetitive code, generating regular
  expressions, finding errors, and security holes, generating test cases.
- Complicated tasks (e.g., regular expressions).
- Fun, such as generating songs, imitating writing styles, etc.

## How did I automate using Chat-GPT?

I really like using the [GetPocket](https://getpocket.com/) application for
saving links to read later. Some articles have dozens of minutes of reading, but
only a few practical pieces of information. I came up with an idea to build an
automatic tool for downloading the latest entries, putting links into ChatGPT,
and preparing summaries on their basis.

I built a pipeline using [make.com](https://www.make.com/en) - a
no-code/low-code platform that connects different web applications and enables
process automation. You set the trigger at the beginning, such as time or
entering a specific URL.

My flow looks like this:

Every 4 h, the Pocket module returns the latest entries with the `summarize`
tag, and then a JSON with the link data is built. Based on the prompt below, a
query is built for ChatGPT:

```
Make notes from the text from url"{{2.given_url}}" with the most unique and helpful points, a list of key points. Extract tools/apps/devices names and urls to the list. Use text original language. If you can't make notes, then return "<not summarized>"
```

Finally, information about the link and summary is stored
in [AirTable](https://airtable.com/).

For example, I take a technical
link [https://thinkinglabs.io/articles/2022/05/30/on-the-evilness-of-feature-branching-the-problems.html](https://thinkinglabs.io/articles/2022/05/30/on-the-evilness-of-feature-branching-the-problems.html)
, and as a result, I get a new record in AirTable. The summary is quite useful
for this article. I got it in the form of points, and I got a list of used
links. I can add the summary to my second brain because it could be useful later
if I write an article on code version control practices, for example.

On the other hand, for another
article: [https://www.bogaty.men/koty-4-2023/](https://www.bogaty.men/koty-4-2023/)
, which is an economic situation review, I get gibberish having nothing to do
with the article.

So, as you can see on the attached screenshot, ChatGPT makes mistakes in
interpreting article content.

## How am I learning?

At the beginning, Twitter was my main source of inspiration. The feed regularly
threw posts at me, and I tested various interesting things, read articles on
principles of operation.

Some time ago, I read in the newsletter [Jakub Mrugalski]([https://unknow.news/)
wrote about selling an ebook he co-created about using Chat GPT in automation
- [Everyday life with GPT-4](https://gpt.zautomatyzowani.pl/). I bought it, read
it, and implemented it.

I also follow sources like Twitter, programmer forums, AI blogs, etc.
